# Speech-Recognition-In-Python
ABSTRACT
 One of the fastest-growing engineering innovations is speech recognition. This has been planned and built with that fact in mind, and some effort has been made to accomplish this goal. It has a variety of uses and possible benefits in a variety of fields. Nearly 20% of the world's population has some kind of disability, with a huge number of them being unseeing or incapable of properly handle their arms and some persons who are blind but have difficulty examination difficulties may listen to a researched article using an accessible device. In such situations, speech recognition systems come in-handy, allowing them to exchange information with others when running a device using voice input. A speech to text system (STT) converts speech into text in a human language format and text to speech system (TTS) translates text into speech in a human language format. The proposed device is a hardware solution for synthesizing speech and allowing voice access to digital content. In the modern era, the current technological development provides greater facilities for human life. Speech recognition system (ASR) is improved a lot from the early 1900’s to present it allows computer to understand human language speech recognition is a machines ability to listen to spoken words and identify them. You can then use speech recognition in python to convert the convert the spoken words into text make a query or give reply. You can even program some devices to respond to these spoken words. This system also recognizes the error between the given inputs and corrects them accordingly for easier communication. The time taken for correcting errors it would be between 0-15 or 20seconds. 
